Now you need to take all of this and communicate it to the right stakeholders.
Note that the security professional who does
the scan may not be the person who fixes the issue.
In fact, in my entire career as a vulnerability manager,
I personally didn't fix majority of the issues I found.
I worked hand in hand with the engineers across the company to fix those issues.
For example, if there was a firewall issue,
I had to share an easy to understand reports of the findings,
why it's important and the recommended fix with the engineering team.
Information on the fix can be found in the scan report and through CVE research.
But I also had to learn the corporate infrastructure
to provide thoughtful and realistic recommendations.
With that, they'd fixed the issue,
I would re-scan just to make sure it was fixed,
and then they'd close it.
Re-scanning is an important step.
I also had someone fix one issue by changing a configuration,
and when I ran the scan again,
that old issue was fixed,
but five new ones popped up and it almost became a game of whack-a-mole.
So the cure should not be worse than the disease.
You may come out of your prioritization effort with some key realizations.
There are things that it doesn't make sense to fix or that you
can't fix right away and need a long-term plan.
This is where remediation strategy options matter as well.
So after your analysis and prioritization effort,
you can decide on how you want to address each finding.
You can choose to avoid the vulnerability by fixing the issue,
adding controls to mitigate the potential impact,
or eliminating the asset altogether.
You can accept the vulnerability,
so essentially do nothing.
But if you take this route,
the decision and justification should be
documented and signed off by an authorized individual.
Or you can transfer the impact elsewhere.
For example, you can cover it through insurance or through vendor support.
Sometimes software becomes obsolete, for example,
and vendors offer special customized packages to help manage that vulnerability.